This morning, as we're here in Matthew chapter number 15, I want to examine an interaction
that takes place between a desperate mother and the Lord Jesus Christ during His earthly
ministry.
Obviously, as we read through the Gospel accounts, we have the privilege of reading about the
life and ministry of our wonderful Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ.
Many times throughout the Gospel accounts, we have the privilege of seeing those interactions
that are captured in the ways in which the Lord ministered in individual families and
to individuals.
We find that there are many times in which He ministered to great multitudes of people.
There are times in which the Gospel accounts record for us the interactions between the
Lord and the religious leaders, the scribes and the Pharisees and the Sadducees and all
of those interactions.
And there's so much content that is given to us in the four Gospel records with regard
to the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ.
And we find in the text of Scripture that we're looking at this morning that this particular
interaction is recorded by Matthew and by Mark.
And we'll look at both passages of Scripture this morning.
Let me read for you the Matthew passage first, and we'll hold our spot here, and then look
over at the Mark passage.
And I will let you know at the very beginning of the message that we will be going back
and forth between Matthew and Mark, so you will want to hold your place in each of those
locations so that you can quickly pass back and forth to look at the passage.
I will also mention this, the interaction that is recorded for us in these two passages
of Scripture is an interaction between a desperate mother and the Lord Jesus Christ.
So there's obviously going to be some application to mothers, in particular dealing with Mother's
Day.
But we also find that the truth that is given in this passage of Scripture is truth that
is applicable for every child of God.
And I hope that it will be a blessing to you this morning.
Matthew chapter number 15, begin looking in verse number 21.
The Bible says,
Then Jesus went thence, and departed into the coast of Tyre and Sidon.
And behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coast, and cried unto him, saying,
Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou Son of David!
My daughter is grievously vexed with a devil.
But he answered her not a word.
And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away, for she crieth after us.
But he answered and said, I am not sent, but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.
Then came she, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me.
But he answered and said, It is not meet to take the children's bread, and to cast it
to dogs.
And she said, Truth, Lord!
Yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their master's table.
Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith!
Be it unto thee, even as thou wilt.
And her daughter was made whole from that very hour.
Turn to the book of Mark, if you will, in chapter number 7.
Mark chapter number 7.
Look at verses 24 through 30.
Record the same interaction.
Of course, a few different details that are provided to us in Mark's gospel in chapter
7, beginning in verse number 24.
The Bible says, And from thence he arose, and went into the borders of Tyre and Sidon,
and entered into a house, and would have no man know it, but he could not be hid.
Oh, there's a whole message that could be preached on that statement, but he could not
be hid.
It will not be the focus of our attention this morning, but what a powerful truth is
contained therein.
Verse 25, For a certain woman, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit, heard of him,
and came and fell at his feet.
The woman was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by nation, and she besought him that he would
cast forth the devil out of her daughter.
But Jesus said unto her, Let the children first be filled, for it is not me to take
the children's bread and to cast it unto the dogs.
And she answered and said unto him, Yes, Lord.
Let the dogs under the table eat of the children's crumbs.
And he said unto her, For this saying go thy way, The devil is gone out of thy daughter.
She was come to her house, and found the devil gone out, and her daughter laid upon the bed.
As you look at the passages of Scripture that are before us this morning, again, I mentioned
that we'll go back and forth between the Matthew account and the Mark account, but you'll notice
that in Matthew chapter 15, that first passage that we read, in verse number 25, the Bible
records for us, really, the level of desperation, as I mentioned, that this is a desperate mother.
She says this in verse number 25, at the end of the verse, Lord, help me.
That's the title for the message this morning, Lord, help me.
I believe that as we look at the passage of Scripture, that perhaps, though I'm not a
mother, obviously, I believe that many mothers could probably understand the times in which
they need help from the Lord.
With dealing with various responsibilities of being a mom, and all of those things that
go with it, there are times in which you need to depend upon the Lord, and I'm so thankful
that the Lord is our helper.
Not only would we think about the truth of that statement with regard to moms, but we
understand as every child of God, what a blessing to know that my help cometh from the Lord,
which made heaven and earth.
What a blessing to know that we can boldly declare and say, the Lord is my helper.
We find that she makes this declaration at the end of verse number 25, Lord, help me,
and we've used that for our title this morning.
Just a few simple points this morning, but I want you to notice, first of all, with me,
notice what she recognized.
As we look at this desperate mother, we begin to unfold the interaction that is recorded
by Matthew and by Mark, I believe that at the very beginning, we begin to notice what
she recognized.
We find that in Mark's account in chapter number seven and verse number 25, the Bible
gives us this insight when it says, for a certain woman whose young daughter had an
unclean spirit, notice these three words, heard of him.
Who's him?
That's Jesus.
That's the Messiah.
That's God in flesh.
And we find that she heard of him.
The thing that is interesting to understand as we look at this truth in verse number 25
is that we are informed of the truth that she heard of him, though we are not told how
she heard of him.
The Bible does not tell us how it was that she received word of the Messiah being in
this location.
You understand, even as I mentioned in verse number 24, that when he went to the borders
of Tyre and Sidon, that he entered into a house, and the Bible says that he would have
no man know it, but he could not be hid.
And then the Bible tells us about this certain woman, and it tells us that she heard of him
and came and fell at his feet.
We begin to understand that she heard, and we don't need to know.
God didn't choose to tell us how she heard of the master, but we can rejoice in understanding
that she heard of the master.
Oh, what a great challenge to each of us this morning of being faithful to tell others about
our wonderful Savior.
We sing so often how that He's a wonderful Savior to me, and He is, and we rejoice in
His goodness and His mercy and all of His attributes, and the reality is that there's
a world of hurting people that have simply never even heard of Him.
And oh, how we need to be faithful.
We were having conversation in recent days and discussing the blessedness of just all
that our Savior does for us, and just how we can have the peace of God which passeth
all understanding, and just His grace and His mercy and all of those things, and I'm
looking at the passage this morning, and I'm rejoicing that she heard of Him.
We notice that this hearing of the master is important, but the reality is what she
does with what she hears is of significant importance.
Oh, there were many that heard of Him.
There were many that heard of Jesus, that heard of this one Messiah, but there were
some that responded and they went and they sought Him and they heard of Him.
There were others that dismissed it, and the reality today is that what we do with
what we've heard is of significant importance.
In fact, through our study of the book of Hebrews, we've mentioned that a number of
times in recent weeks with regard to the warning passages that are given to us about the importance
of hearing and doing and the importance of being a doer of the Word.
But we find that she heard of Him, and I want you to notice what she recognized.
Notice this.
I believe first it's clear to us through both of these passages of Scripture that she recognized
that Jesus is the Christ, that He is the Messiah.
Now that's important for us to understand at the very beginning of the message this
morning because what she recognized will have a...
major impact and influence on how she will behave. And we find that she
recognized that he's God in flesh. She recognized that he is the Messiah.
Notice back in the Matthew passage in chapter 15 and verse number 22 as she
first comes, notice now we understand that this is a Gentile. This is not a
Jewish woman. She's a Gentile, a Greek, a Syrophoenician, the Bible tells us in
Mark's Gospel. And we find that she comes and notice what she says in verse
number 22, have mercy on me. Notice these words, O Lord, thou son of David. She had
heard some truth. She had heard some prophecy from the Old Testament, the
fulfillment of that prophecy in the person of Jesus Christ. And she
understood that he was the Messiah. You understand that this truth, O Lord, thou
son of David, that is a Jewish approach that one would have to the Lord, the
Messiah. But she is a Greek. She comes to the Lord Jesus Christ understanding, even
by the way that she referred to him, that he is the Messiah. In fact, as we look at
the passage of Scripture, we find that on three occasions in Matthew's account, the
Bible records where she calls him Lord. We find that there in verse number 25 of
our passage of Scripture, excuse me, in verse number 22, she says, O Lord, thou son
of David. Notice in verse number 25, Lord, help me. Notice again in verse number 27,
she said, truth, Lord. And we find that she's recognizing through the statement
and through how she would refer to the Lord Jesus Christ, that he is the Lord,
that he is Messiah. We find that the Apostle Paul dealt with this subject as
he was preaching, and we often have made reference to the messages that God gives
us in the book of Acts. And we find that when the Apostle Paul went to Thessalonica
in Acts chapter number 17, the Bible tells us that he first went into the
synagogue. This was his manner. This was his typical approach as he went to
the cities that God would allow him to minister in. The Bible tells us that when
he arrived in Thessalonica that there was a synagogue of the Jews, and Paul, as
his manner was in verse 2 of Acts 17, says that he went in unto them and three
Sabbath days reasoned with them out of the Scriptures. Notice in verse number
3 of Acts 17, opening and alleging that Christ must needs have suffered and
risen again from the dead, and that this Jesus whom I preach unto you is Christ.
Why is it that the Apostle Paul used the words, the names, of Christ that he did
in the manner in which he did? We find that he's there in the synagogue, and
Jesus, the name of Jesus, that name gives us the understanding that Jehovah is
salvation, that God incarnate. These individuals, many of them, of course, they
would have had a knowledge of the person Jesus. They would have known this
historical figure, this one who we're reading about his life and ministry in
these gospel accounts here this morning, and they would have had a certain
awareness and knowledge of Jesus, but notice he says, this Jesus whom I preach
unto you is Christ. The name Christ means the Anointed One, the Messiah, the Son of
God. And so what was Paul doing there in Thessalonica is he was connecting the
points, and he says in the Old Testament there were some prophecies with regard
to the Messiah. This one Jesus that you're aware of, that you know, the one
who lived a sinless perfect life, the one who went to the cross of Calvary, he was
buried and he rose in victory, he, that Jesus, he is the Christ. He's the Messiah.
He's the fulfillment. We find in Philippians chapter number 2 in verses
9 through 11 that the Bible gives us a wonderful truth with regard to the name
of Jesus. The Bible says there in Philippians 2 in verse 9 that the name
of Jesus every knee, every knee should bow of things in heaven, things in earth,
and things under the earth, and that every tongue, every tongue should confess
that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.
Remember when the Apostle Paul, his name was Saul at the time of his conversion
in Acts chapter 9, who art thou Lord? And then he says, Lord what wilt thou have
me to do? We find for this desperate mother in this interaction between her
and the Lord Jesus Christ, we find what she recognized first, that that Jesus is
the Christ, that he is the Messiah. Notice next that she recognized that he was
worthy of worship. She recognized that he was worthy of worship. Back in the
account that Matthew gives us in chapter 15 in verse number 25, the Bible says,
Then came she, notice, and worshipped him, saying, Lord help me. He is
worthy of our worship. We ought to worship the Lord. We seek to worship him
even here this morning. We've worshipped him through our singing and through our
giving, and now as we open up the Scriptures, we seek to exalt and
magnify our wonderful Savior and to worship him, understanding that he is
worthy of worship. I believe that as Mark would tell us in the end of chapter, or
the end of verse number 25 in his account, when it says that she heard
of him and came and fell at his feet. It doesn't use the terminology that she
worshipped, but we find that she did indeed worship the Lord, and in that
position of falling to her feet, we find that many throughout the Scriptures, when
they would worship, they would be fallen at the feet of the Lord. I want you to
understand, even as we were preaching through the book of Hebrews, that Jesus
is God, and that's why he accepts worship. We had spoken about the fact that Christ
is superior than the angels, and we spent time in Hebrews 1 and 2 dealing with and
developing and proving that truth from the Word of God, and understanding the
distinction between angels and the Lord Jesus Christ, and we made one of those
points that the angels worship, but that Jesus himself is worshipped. Why? Because
he's God. If he were not God, he would not have permitted this woman to worship him.
No doubt. The angel didn't let John worship him. The angel said, no, no, no.
Worship God. John the Baptist was quick to say, I'm not he, right? They wanted to
know, are you the one? No, I'm not. We find that she recognized, number one, that
Jesus is the Christ, number two, that he is worthy of worship, number three, I
believe that she recognized that he has all power. He has all power. Indeed, he is
the Lord God omnipotent. He says at the end of chapter Matthew, in chapter number
28, after his ascension, yeah, after his resurrection and before his ascension, we
find that he made this declaration as he was giving the disciples the great
commission, all power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. I believe that
this desperate mother that had this interaction with the Lord Jesus Christ, I
believe that she recognized at least these three things. Number one, that he is
the Christ. This morning, have you recognized that? Not just for the mothers,
but for everyone. Have we recognized that Jesus is in fact God in flesh, that he is
the Messiah, he's the fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecy, that he is God?
Have we recognized that he's worthy of worship? Do we worship him? In John
chapter 4, we find that we're to worship him in spirit and in truth. Have you
recognized this morning that he has all power? See, as we notice what she
recognized, it brings us to our second thought this morning. I want you to
notice what she requested. What she requested. I've mentioned a couple of
times already this morning that this was a desperate mother. We find that her
reason for being desperate was that her daughter was grievously vexed with a
devil. I can't even imagine the desperation of this woman. The Bible says
that she says in verse number 22, my daughter is grievously vexed with a
devil. In Mark's account in chapter number 7, we find that the Bible tells us in
verse number 26 that she was a Greek, a Syrophoenician by nation, and she
besought him that he would cast forth the devil out of her daughter. We're told
in verse number 25 that it was a young daughter. We're not told the age of this
daughter. We're not told the age of the woman that comes. But the Bible tells us
that it was a young daughter, and the Bible tells us that she was grievously
vexed with a devil.
thus leading to this woman's desperation.
When we understand what she recognized about Jesus,
we will understand that it is the basis for what she requests.
We noticed what she's recognized.
Now, notice what she requested.
By the way, if she did not recognize that He was Lord
and that He was worthy of worship and that He was all-powerful,
there's no reason that she would make the request that she makes.
But because she understood,
just because she heard of Him,
she goes and she understood some things,
she recognized some things,
and therefore she comes,
and knowing that He's God in flesh
and knowing that He has all-power,
she comes with a passionate plea for deliverance.
Lord, help me.
We've mentioned that there as our title in Matthew 15 and verse 25.
I believe that as we would look at the passage of Scripture
and notice what she requested,
that she had faith, she believed that God was able.
I don't think there was any part of her that had any doubt whatsoever
that Jesus was able to fulfill her request.
She believed.
She recognized that He was God.
She recognized He was worthy of worship.
She recognized that He had all-power,
and therefore, based upon her recognition,
she then goes and she makes this request,
Lord, I know You can do something about this.
There's no one else to go to.
See, this morning, in your life and in my life,
what we recognize about our Savior
will have a great impact and influence on what we request from our Savior.
See, the reality is that a missionary of yesteryear,
he said that we're to expect great things from God.
We're to attempt great things for God.
The reality is that we can read various accounts of those that have gone before us
and we can see their prayers,
and we can see how God answered and how God worked.
Our God is able.
We find that this woman, she was specific and she was persistent.
In fact, her persistence, because the Lord Jesus Christ answered her not a word,
according to Matthew 15 and verse 23,
the disciples, they besought Him and said,
send her away for she crieth after us.
She was persistent.
What caused her to be persistent?
What she recognized.
She was desperate. She needed help.
And she knew that Jesus was the One.
She knew that He could do something.
And as we think about the interaction that takes place,
I'll mention this and not the main focus of our message this morning,
but certainly important to point out,
when we understand the interaction between this woman and the Lord Jesus Christ
and how that He answered her not a word initially
and then said to her,
I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel,
and then said it is not meant to take the children's bread
and to cast it to dogs.
We'd understand that what the Lord is dealing with here in the text of Scripture,
both in Matthew and Mark as He's revealing to us the truth that we've often said,
as Paul would declare that the Gospel to the Jew first and also to the Greek.
And we find that Jesus came first to the Jews, to Israel, to the household of Israel.
And we understand that in the plan of God because He's omniscient,
He's Alpha and Omega, He's eternal, He knows all things,
that as Paul would deal with in the book of Romans,
that the Gentiles were graft in.
We understand that the nation of Israel rejected the Lord Jesus Christ as being Messiah.
And we find that Jesus is dealing with that very truth here in Matthew and Mark.
It's interesting if you look in John chapter number 10,
I'll just make quick reference to it,
but in John chapter number 10,
when we deal with the passage of Scripture that deals with the Lord being our shepherd,
that He is the good shepherd and as the good shepherd He giveth His life for the sheep.
You'll know in verse number 1 of John 10 that Jesus says,
Verily, verily, I say unto you,
He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way,
the same as a thief and a robber,
but he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
Notice in verse 3,
Unto him the porter openeth, and the sheep hear his voice,
and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out.
And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them.
The sheep follow them, why?
For they know his voice.
And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him,
for they know not the voice of a stranger, or of strangers, excuse me.
Now skip down and look at verse number 16.
The Lord says this,
And other sheep have I, or I have, which are not of this fold,
them also must I bring, and they shall hear my voice,
and there shall be one fold and one shepherd.
In John 10, verses 1 through 5,
he's speaking about the nation of Israel, the sheep there.
And then when he talks about the other sheep I have in verse number 16,
he's speaking about Gentiles.
And we know the mystery of the church.
Remember, as we studied the book of Ephesians last year,
Paul would talk about the mystery.
And that mystery of the church is how the church is made up of Jews and Gentiles.
And what a blessing.
We understand that the church is not spiritual Israel.
It's an entity in of itself.
And God said, the Lord Jesus Christ said that he would build his church.
The gates of hell shall not prevail against it.
So it's important to just kind of know that dialogue that's going back and forth
between this desperate mother and the Lord Jesus Christ.
He's giving instruction with regard to he first came to the house of Israel,
and she, of course, as being a Gentile,
most of, many of, I should say,
the Gentile nations were often referred to as dogs from the Jewish people.
And that's the reason for the terminology that is used.
She understood that, by the way.
She was responded and she said,
truth, Lord, yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their master's table.
And dealing with a physical illustration as well as the spiritual that the Lord is giving.
But as we go back to what she requested,
we understand this truth this morning that belief impacts behavior.
Belief impacts behavior.
What you believe to be true about God is evidence through your behavior.
As mothers, as we think about this desperate mother,
but really not just for mothers, for all of us this morning,
what we request from our God reveals to us what we really believe about our God.
Do we really believe that he's able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think?
If we were to have our prayers,
if we were to have the prayers that we prayed in this last week,
that they had been recorded and played back to us,
what would our prayers reveal to us about what we believe about God?
What is it that we've requested that would prove
that we believe that our God is the Lord God Omnipotent?
To believe that He is able to answer and to show us great and mighty things which we know not.
I wonder this morning.
See, when we look at what she requested,
it's born out of what she recognized.
I'm so thankful that our God is the Lord God Almighty.
I'm so thankful this morning that our God is a very present help
as we see that she comes and says,
Lord, help me. He's able to help.
I don't know what your situation is today.
I don't know what circumstance you're dealing with today,
but I know this, God is able.
He's able.
He is a very present help.
He has the answers.
Listen, we're living through this global pandemic
and there's all sorts of things that are going on.
And if you pay attention to some things that are out there,
you find that there's an increase of some very disturbing trends
of socio-type of things that are going on in our society.
As you begin to look at those things, you find that Jesus is the answer.
Her daughter was grievously vexed with the devil.
She said, only Jesus can help.
Why? Because He's greater.
He's greater.
Maybe there's a mom that says,
I'm having some difficulties with a child.
Not that they're grievously vexed with the devil,
but they're having some challenges, some difficulties.
Whatever those difficulties might be,
can I tell you that Jesus can help?
Oh, it's fine and good to seek counsel,
talk to other mothers about their experiences.
It's fine to read books.
There's some really good books that are out there.
But can I tell you that none of that will help like Jesus will?
See, when we go to God in prayer,
and God is able to work in the heart of that child,
and God is able to work through those circumstances,
He's able to do what we cannot do.
Sometimes we get so frustrated. Why?
Because we're trying to fix something that only God can fix.
And how it reveals to us our dependence.
dependence on Him.
See, that's a humbling thing.
Because many times we think,
man, I can do this.
I want to be able to fix this situation.
No, no, Lord, I need Your help.
Lord, I'm doing the best I can do,
but God, would You work and do
what only You can do?
See, we don't want just an outward
form of compliance.
We want a heart that is conformed
to the image of Christ.
A life that is seeking to serve
the Lord Jesus Christ.
I remember hearing that story,
and I doubt that it's true,
though some have said the story
as if it were true.
Maybe it is. I don't know.
But there's a story about a little girl
that was told to have a seat,
and she wouldn't have a seat.
And defiant, she's not going to sit down.
She's not going to sit down.
And through a struggle that ensued,
we find that eventually,
the parent was victorious
and the child finally sat down.
And then said, I'm sitting on the outside,
but on the inside, I'm standing up.
That's not what we're looking for.
We're not just looking for a matter
of conformance.
We're looking for a changed heart.
And only Jesus can change a heart.
Only Jesus could cause this devil
that had vexed this girl.
This girl was demon-possessed,
and because Jesus is God,
He could cause that devil to be departed.
He's the only one.
We find what she recognized.
Number two, what she requested.
Notice finally with me this morning
what she received.
Look at Matthew.
Actually, turn to Mark.
I want to look at what Mark says
in Matthew 7, verses 29 and 30.
Notice the Bible says this in Mark 7,
verse 29,
"...and He said unto her,
for this saying, go thy way."
Notice this phrase.
The devil is gone out of thy daughter.
You know what she received?
She received a promise of deliverance.
She received the Word of God.
She received the promise from God in flesh.
And she had this interaction
with the Lord Jesus Christ.
This is an account that actually happened
during his life in ministry.
He went to this place to tire and sight in,
and this desperate mother heard of Him
and sought Him and fell at His feet,
and she recognized who He was
and what power He possessed
and that He was worthy of worship.
And she said, Lord, help me.
And the situation is known
that her daughter is grievously vexed
with a devil,
and we find that Jesus says,
for this thy saying, go thy way.
The devil is gone out of thy daughter.
Isn't that a blessed truth?
I mean, can you imagine?
Put yourself within the context of this account.
Can you imagine the level of desperation
of this mother?
It's hard for us to fathom,
but beyond any human comprehension
of what she was dealing with
and the severity of the situation,
and she comes to the Lord
and she's specific and she's persistent.
She says, Lord, help me.
And Jesus says,
the devil is gone out of thy daughter.
Oh man, I can't imagine how she must have felt.
I can't imagine the joy that swelled up
within the emotions of this woman
in rejoicing at the promise of deliverance.
The fact that this Messiah,
that Jesus, He said,
the devil is gone out of thy daughter.
Over in Matthew's account,
we find that the Bible told us there,
O woman, great is thy faith.
Notice, be it unto thee even as thou wilt.
Be it unto thee even as thou wilt.
We find that there was a promise of deliverance.
Can I tell you the promise of deliverance
is followed up by a restored daughter.
In verse 30, notice it says,
and when she was come to her house,
I'm not sure the distance
of how far she traveled.
In my mind's eye, in my sanctified imagination,
I believe that she probably went in haste.
I believe that she went to this place Tyre and Sidon
as Jesus entered into this house
and as she had heard of Him and came,
I believe that she left her house
and went in haste to see the Savior.
I mean, this was an urgent matter.
It was a pressing thing.
And I believe that she returned to her house in haste.
I mean, she was claiming the promise of God.
She was holding on to the very words
that God had spoken to her.
The devil is gone out of thy daughter.
The Bible says that she returned to her house
when she was come to her house.
She found the devil gone out
and her daughter laid upon the bed.
Matthew says this,
and her daughter was made whole,
notice this phrase,
from that very hour.
Can you imagine?
The joy, the rejoicing
that must have taken place
when we understand what she received.
And she had received exactly what it was
that she requested.
And we find that this desperate mother,
that she comes to the Savior
and now she leaves from where he is
and she returns to her home
and she finds that her daughter was made whole
from that very hour.
I believe this is something
they probably talked about for a while.
Don't you?
I mean, something that would not soon be forgotten.
To see how God worked,
what He did,
could only be explained as God did it.
There was nothing she could do.
There was nothing anyone else could do.
But the Lord Jesus Christ, God in flesh,
He was able to deliver this her daughter
who had been grievously vexed with a devil.
Notice that she is commended for her faith
in our account in Matthew 15, 28.
The Bible says,
a woman, great is thy faith.
I wonder this morning,
how many of us,
would the Lord Jesus Christ say of us,
great is thy faith?
I'm not asking if you think you have great faith.
I'm not asking if someone else,
humanly speaking,
thinks that you have great faith.
But I'm wondering if Jesus would say of me,
I'm wondering if Jesus would say of you,
great is thy faith.
She just believed God.
She just believed,
and she didn't hear half as what we've heard.
Amen?
We have the whole canon of Scripture.
But she believed.
And Jesus says, great is thy faith.
Quickly, as we look at this passage of Scripture,
we consider the interaction that took place
between this desperate mother
and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I wonder this morning where we can relate.
I wonder this morning,
not just for the moms,
but yes, to the moms,
to all of us this morning,
have we recognized that Jesus is the Messiah,
that He is the Christ?
Have we placed our faith and trust
in the finished work of Christ at Calvary,
that He died according to the Scriptures,
He was buried,
and He rose on the third day according to the Scriptures?
Have you been saved?
Can I tell you this morning
that if you've not trusted Christ as your Savior,
today is the day of salvation.
Don't put it off.
No man knoweth what a day may bring forth.
And we find that she recognized
that He is Messiah, that He is Lord.
She recognized He's worthy of worship.
I wonder, how are we worshiping the Lord?
She recognized that He had all power.
And the basis of her request
was what she recognized this morning.
Are we begging God, pleading with God?
I see the passion of this woman, this mother.
I see that she, with persistence and being specific,
she had passion in seeking the Lord.
I wonder, the Bible says the effectual fervent prayer
of a righteous man availeth much.
Are we wrestling in prayer?
Are we seeking the face of God?
Are we believing that He is able?
Are we asking Him for some things
that could only be done by Him
so that we can see that God did it?
You know, our kids need to see God working.
I imagine the interaction
between this mom and her daughter.
I imagine her telling her daughter of this account
probably more than once.
When you were, we don't know how old, young daughter,
you'd been grievously vexed with the devil.
And there was nothing we could do.
There are other accounts in the Gospels
of those that were demon-possessed.
How terrible!
We find, she said, but Jesus, I heard of Him, and I went, and He cast out the devil.
Oh, I believe it was a day that, if we could use the term, was a memorial of sorts.
A day to constantly remember what Jesus did.
In our lives, our kids, others, they need to know what Jesus did.
How we've prayed about things.
How we've exercised faith, believing that He is able.
What we recognize about God will impact what we request.
And can I tell you that if we don't request, we're not receiving.
Right?
We're not receiving if we're not asking.
Our God is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think.
The Bible says, call unto Me, and I will answer thee,
and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not.
She received because she requested.
She requested because she recognized.
And this morning, I hope that we recognize some things about our Savior,
and that it has a noticeable impact and influence in our behavior.
Lord, help me.
Father, we thank You and we love You.
We thank You for the truth of Thy Word.
This interaction that's been recorded by Matthew and Mark
regarding this day in which this desperate mother came
to the house where Jesus was.
We know that it really happened.
And we now, almost 2,000 years later, are rejoicing
in the work that was accomplished on this day.
But as we begin to examine the passage of Scripture,
we begin to notice what this desperate mother recognized
and what she requested, what she received.
Oh, how we're challenged in our own walk with Thee today.
God, I pray that if there'd be one that's tuned in this morning
that does not know the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior,
they've never recognized that Jesus is the Messiah,
that this Jesus is the Christ, that He is God in flesh.
Oh God, it's our prayer that they'd get that settled today.
They would not allow for another moment to go by
without knowing for sure that heaven is their home.
God, help us to be mindful of the fact that You have all power.
There's nothing beyond Your control.
Nothing too difficult for Thee.
Oh, but you don't understand my child.
You don't understand God.
And I don't say that without any concern or without any compassion.
I simply say it because it's true.
Our God is able.
Oh Lord, I pray that You'd help us.
Help us to depend upon Thee.
Help us to seek Thee.
In the moment of invitation and the quietness of the moment,
Lord, I pray that You'd work in my heart and the hearts of those that are present,
those that have tuned in via live stream.
God, that You would do a work that we'd sit back and say,
look at what God did.
That You alone would be glorified.
Well, thank You for all that You'll do.
For it's in Christ's name we pray.